[Music]
eleven texting behaviors that show a
person is lying to you people think that
it's much easier to get away with
telling lies while texting the liar
doesn't have to look you in the eye and
you don't see their facial expression
fear or confusion they also don't have
to respond quickly so they can
thoroughly plan they're deceptive
response and even though all of these
advantages are true it's still possible
to spot a liar through a text message in
this video bright side will tell you
about eleven types of texting behavior
that will help you detect the lies
number eleven long sentences a liar
subconsciously tries to hide their lives
between the lines research by Cornell
University proved that a false sentence
is usually longer than a true one when
the subjects of the study had to tell
lies their sentences were one word
longer on average so when texting with
someone keep in mind that people usually
try to keep it short because they want
to get their idea across as fast as
possible that's why we have a whole slew
of abbreviations used in texting lingo
but if you notice that someone is using
unusually long sentences when they
normally don't might be a sign of lies
number 10 tricky wording no it's not
about the Master Yoda word order style
this one is mostly about word choice
Liars tend to use words that express
probability or insecurity to avoid
talking directly and decisively the
Cornell Research mentioned earlier also
showed that women who had to tell lies
used words such as probably maybe try
and some others of the same nature more
often than usual
the idea here is that women try to make
their sentences less direct so that if
they're accused of lying later they'll
have a defense of I said maybe what's
interesting is that the scientists
didn't notice any difference in the word
choice that men used in these situations
so if you're a women and you suspect
your husband of something don't pay
attention to the wording of his texts
number nine repeating information have
you ever heard the saying repeat a lie a
thousand times and it becomes the truth
this is the exact method that Liars like
to use they'll repeat lies over and over
and over again until you believe them
like we said before people try to be as
brief as possible in their texts so if
you notice that someone is repeating the
same thing again and again they may be
doing it to convince you of something
that isn't true
another reason for repeating information
could be to give the impression of a
long explanation that looks like it has
a lot of information and arguments
proving their point or explaining their
situation it's all really there to
confuse you stay attentive and don't let
anyone cheat you with long-winded
stories read between the lines number
eight a delayed response if someone
doesn't respond to your text for a long
time who knows what's going on maybe
they're busy or didn't see the text or
they could be trying to come up with a
lie so if you ask someone a simple
question and it takes them forever to
answer it
even though moments before they were
going back and forth with you just fine
might have a liar on your hands next
time you can go with a simple what took
you so long and see what their response
will be and how long it takes them to
send it number seven
long typing if you're texting a person
who you know can type quickly then
taking a long time to type a short
answer is pretty suspicious what they
actually might be doing is correcting
their original message to make it look
more convincing or to see if their story
lines up but in the end deciding not to
send it at all
you see making up lies requires hard
work it's much harder to tell lies than
it is the truth and texting makes things
even worse because in this situation a
liar has a chance to edit the text and
perfect their lie so if you see that
little note so-and-so is typing stays on
the screen for a few minutes but after
that you get a short answer like no I
didn't then your inner lie detector
should be going off number 6 no answer
at all
concealment is a type of line in the
texting world it's way easier to skip
the answer entirely can you imagine a
situation in real life when you ask
someone a question making sure that they
heard you loud and clear and they simply
don't respond and texting it happens all
the time a person can try to change the
topic of the conversation or just go
offline pretending to be busy or lose
their signal their train of thought is
I'll buy some time now and then she'll
forget what she had asked the problem
for the liar here is that you can see
all the messages you've sent unless it's
snapchat these messages aren't going
anywhere so please don't forget to ask
the question again later it'll be a lot
of fun catching them and Ally number 5
calling to conscience
people are very vulnerable beings and
Liars love taking advantage of this some
Liars try to make you feel guilty for
even asking a question you see if you
accuse someone of something they didn't
do they don't get defensive because they
know that they've got nothing to hide
and so they just answer the question
directly with the free conscience
however Liars need time to think what to
do and to throw attention off themselves
they'll accuse you back if they succeed
you'll stop asking the question and even
feel bad for asking it in the first
place
don't fall for this and don't let them
change the topic
number four finger pointing this is just
another way of playing on someone's
emotions in this case a liar tries to
take control of the situation they start
probing you with questions and pointing
the finger at you until you feel like
you have to defend yourself for example
you ask someone if they deleted some of
your pictures let's assume they did the
liar will answer with something like why
did you think it was me you always blame
me for everything the liar hopes that
you start arguing with the last sentence
and forget about your first question
you'll then say something like no I
don't always do that sorry if I made you
think that way if you do it like this
you've already lost the battle what you
should do is repeat your original
question and ask the person to give you
a direct answer no ifs ands or buts
about it number three out of options
to stay on the safe side a liar might
test your possible reaction first what
if you get mad if they tell you the
truth or maybe you don't care and
they're safe to confess
that's why Liars often say something
like what if I said yes in most
situations you can be sure that you've
got your answer the truth is most likely
what the liar is presenting as a
hypothetical answer
number two playing possum this is one of
the most popular tricks and again it's
used to buy some time they say something
like do you need the answer now they
hope that you'll be too polite to push
that you'll give them some time to think
we recommend that you drive the point in
and simply say yes I need the answer
right now
number one complaining
have you ever faked a fever or
stomachache to skip school like this
video if you have we want to know how
many people are with us people still use
this trick even when they got older
whether it's skipping work or getting
out of jury duty some deceivers also use
it to talk their way out of an
unpleasant conversation course you're
not going to bully them if they're sick
right wrong if they tell you that they
have a headache that's why they can't
talk right now this is just bogus show
no mercy and keep on asking the question
you want the true answer to say
something like look just answer my
question and then you can get some rest
they'll just take a second and then
you'll have all the time in the world to
get better this is a polite and
assertive way to elicit an answer do you
know any other signs of Lies and texting
if so please tell us in the comment
section below don't forget to like this
video and send it to your friends to
keep them safe from Liars too and of
course don't forget to hit the subscribe
button to join us on the bright side of
life